---
layout: single
title: "Different ways to setup CDC"
date: 2025-31-12 04:30:00 +0300
categories: cdc overview postgres debezium change-data-capture
---

# Table of contents
1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Prerequisite](#prerequisite)
3. [Change Data Capture (CDC)](#cdc)
4. [CDC techniques](#cdctechniques)
   1. [Select-based](#selectbased)
   2. [Listen & notify](#listennotify)
   3. [Trigger-based](#triggerbased)
   4. [Log-based](#logbased)
5. [Conclusion](#conclusion)

# Introduction <a name="introduction"></a>
CDC is an important part of data processing. Using CDC you can achieve many goals from simple data replication to audit and complex ETL jobs.
But implementing CDC is still a tough task (especially when considering not only happy-path). 
In this article I want to show different ways of implementing CDC. Also, I'll try to not only show how to setup each variant, but also compare them with each other and highlight pros and cons of each option.  

# Prerequisite <a name="prerequisite"></a>
Before we start, let's look at required environment. Most examples can be reproduced using the only postgres instance without any additional setups and it may look like this: 

```yaml
services:
  database:
    image: postgres:17
    ports:
      - "5432:5432"
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD-SHELL", "pg_isready -U postgres -d postgres"]
      interval: 10s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 5
      start_period: 10s
    environment:
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres
      POSTGRES_USER: postgres
      POSTGRES_DB: postgres
    command:
      - "postgres"
      - "-c"
      - "wal_level=logical"
      - "-c"
      - "max_wal_senders=5"
      - "-c"
      - "max_replication_slots=5"
```

If for any CDC option will additional components will be required it will be highlighted.

# Change Data Capture (CDC) <a name="cdc"></a>
In one of [the previous article]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _posts/2024/2024-05-31-debezium-postgres.markdown %}) definition for CDC was described, but for clarity let's shortly repeat it here again.
Change Data Capture (CDC) is a technique used in data integration and database systems to identify, track, and deliver only the data that has changed since the last capture. 
This enables efficient, real-time or near-real-time data synchronization, replication, and analytics without processing entire datasets repeatedly.

# CDC techniques <a name="cdctechniques"></a>
As we already know, CDC is a technique that allows to handle data changes. Depending on task and it's requirements you may or may not want to track every change of every row.
This is an important point, because correctly using it you can achieve your goal using simple solution (looking ahead a little, why set up complex solution which track every insert, update and delete if you know that your data is strictly append-only and volume of that data is not too high)

# Select-based <a name="selectbased"></a>

# Listen & notify <a name="listennotify"></a>

# Trigger-based <a name="triggerbased"></a>

# Log-based <a name="logbased"></a>

# Conclusion <a name="conclusion"></a>